# My vision for the world

## My experience with technology

I have always had a fascination with technology, specifically with computers. As a kid my days were structured around excitedly waiting for 16:30, which was dedicated as computer time, as an attempt by my parents to limit our computer usage / video game time. I fear this strategy has backfired on them however. The waiting only allowed these magic machines to lure me in with their allure and mystique.

This magical view of computers carried with me through my childhood. It was the initial driving force for me to get into technology in the first place. I wanted to be the person telling those things what to do, to be the one writing those games I always played, to help people with their computer problems. This is what drove me to start programming at the early age of 12. While I should've been doing school work, I would be putting together little scratch games and learning python whenever I felt bold enough.

Getting into programming for the first time introduced me to the way the public views programmers. One of my friends was way into startup culture and would always come up with these crazy concepts for companies we should start at the ripe old age of 13. These ranged from "Creating our own phones" to "Creating our own YouTube" and even "Building our own laptop company". Whilst these endeavors where ultimately fruitless, they gave me the inspiration I needed to keep programming and get better at my craft.

Now that I am more experienced in the field however (and grew up a bit), this magical view of technology has faded out. Not only because I have more knowledge about my abilities, but also because I grew disillusioned with the tech industry. What I once saw as a field where people could do magical things and save the world, had become a field fueled by hype, false promises, and entire industries based on finding solutions to problems that did not exist. This is not to say I stopped programming however; I am here studying for a reason. I think that besides all the hype and speculation around the subject, programming is in it's purest form a highly personal art form, a way to express ourselves in an unconventional form. The things I choose to do with a computer from writing games to building Web OS's, are done because I wish something like that exists, and can be a powerful tool to share a curated experience with people, and leave them with something to chew on.

This aspect of programming has sadly been lost in the public consciousness. The old cluttered personal MySpace pages and personal blogs of yore have been replaced with centralized social-media platforms. The personal has been replaced by the bland, and the personality of these spaces is a thing of the past. The modern view of technology is one of practicality, and the ability to 'change the world', or create more 'convenient' alternatives to modern products. The world is constantly on it's toes, waiting for the next 'tech revolution' that will never come.

## The modern view of technology

During the 20th and the beginning of the 21st century, the cultural perception if the tech industry has been one of constant innovation. Computers were going to do everything for us and improve our lives in ways we can't imagine. This has given them a lot of leeway and trust from the general public. This of course, is a very desirable outcome for these companies, as constant innovation means a seemingly endless capacity for growth, which is why investors globally have been eager to invest these tech giants. It also explains how unicorn startups keep getting millions in investments from massive firms like Y-combinator, despite the fact they rarely deliver. The prospect of owning stock in "The next big thing" is too good to pass up, and the hype is ever growing.

Endless growth, of-course, is not possible for any industry. At some point, everything must reach equilibrium. But the tides of the stock market are hard to sway and tech giants are unwilling to let go of their image. When real innovation runs dry, the hype must be kept alive at all costs. We are seeing the start of this now hype-based technologies are constantly being pushed, only to be taken over by the next big thing. This was most apparent with the advent of the blockchain and crypto. Crypto was advertised as a completely new and novel approach to decentralized- storage and commerce that could revolutionize everything from simple transactions to society itself. After that came the metaverse, the culmination of decades of work in rendering virtual worlds, a Virtual Reality world that would change the way we see social interaction and each other. This hype was so strong that Facebook changes it's name to 'Meta' and switched focus on creating their own version of the concept. At the time of writing the current hype is AI, LLM's and Diffusion models, and the promise of an eventual all-consuming AGI, that will solve all our problems for us.

## Is the hype worth it?

In hindsight it was easy to see that these promises were never going to pan out. The blockchain simply did not have that many real-world applications besides black-market dealings and rug pull / ponzi-like NFT or coin scams, and the idea of a 'decentralized' storage just didn't appeal to any agency who gave it some thought. The metaverse was a definitionless mess that turned from "It's coming soon!" to "It's already here!". The term somehow included both galaxy-wide experiences seen in movies like Ready Player One, as well as games like 'Minecraft' or even just 'social media'.

AI, being the current hype-train as of the writing of this page, seems like an outlier. Machine learning has seen many applications and has been a branch of computer science for almost as long as computer science was a thing. AI as a technology certainly has much more legitimacy than most technologies subject to this phenomenon. And even with the current hype-cycle advancements in AI continue to be made. And yet, event AI has been hit by this. Investors are pushing every tech company under the sun to 'find a use for AI', and are racing to implement something to please them. This has led some businesses to implement old technologies and claim they are 'powered by AI', or even claim it 'already used AI', despite these technologies never have been labelled as such. The term AI it seems falls in the same pitfalls of 'metaverse', being that it is more of a science fiction / marketing term, rather than something concrete. And it's being powered by the same hype that ravaged many concepts before it.

For me it's not a stretch to say the current hype for AI will eventually hit it's peak, and we will all move on to the next thing. There are already studies that suggest training AI is a non-linear process. That we will reach a point in the near future where our current approach of 'Putting more data in the dataset' will no longer be effective, as the amount of data required to increase it's performance will become to high to realistically achieve. In a recent paper of Cornell University, they test various models ability to grow based on an increasing data set, they conclude:

`"Our findings reveal that across concepts, significant improvements in zero-shot performance require exponentially more data, following a log-linear scaling trend. This pattern persists despite controlling for similarities between pretraining and downstream datasets or even when testing models on entirely synthetic data distributions." - "No 'Zero-Sjhit' Without Exponential Data: Pretraining Concept Frequency Determines Multimodal Model Performance", Cornell University`

With this prospect, the dominant narrative that AI will 'just improve' seems to be showing it's cracks. I predict that once investors start realizing their 'always learning' AI's have in fact stagnated, they will move on to the next hype, or abandon silicon valley altogether.

This is not stopping tech companies from putting LLM's and other forms of generative AI into their products, with the promise that it will 'just improve', in order to follow the hype and keep investors happy. As you can imagine, these implementations are often sloppy an error-prone. And have often served to make these products worse. Google implemented their LLM recently into their titular search engine, a model called 'Gemini' which aims to give a summary of all the results of your search. This has famously been a disaster, as a LLM is unable to judge the accuracy of the summary, or the information it has been fed. This results in it giving wildly false, biased, and even dangerous summaries ranging from misinformation, racist statements, and even giving people dangerous health and safety advice.

This also leads companies to forgo considering the ethical implications of their technologies. Google famously fired two AI safety researchers back in 2018 for releasing a paper that outlines the physiological dangers of introducing so called "Stochastic Parrots" (Machines with the ability to speak but not understand natural language, like ChatGPT and Google Gemini). This seems to be a general trend in the industry, as AI safety departments are being shut down all over silicon valley. This isn't even talking about the fact that LLMs and generative AI's are often trained on copyrighted works and art without permission of the original authors. Or the fact that millions of people have now been given access to an infinite spam generator.

## My hopeful vision for the future

I imagine with the current trend of over-hype and false promises, the hype cycle will die down. The tech industry's stock will decline and reach equilibrium, and investors will move on. I wish to see a future where technology will once again be viewed as a tool, rather than an integral part of life, one where the public has a healthy appreciation for technologies such as computers and AI, and integrate it into their lives on their own terms.

It it this picture is wish to paint with my work. I hope that my contributions to the field serve to bring this goal to reality, and to a point where people find joy in technology again. I wish to share my fascination with technology through my work, and provide people with something that gives them a different outlook on technology than they had before.
